hamster(1) -- Furry Modern Time Tracker
=======================================


**FIXME** All this!


SYNOPSIS
--------

findup [-v|--version] [-h|--help] <exact-name>

findup [-v|--version] [-h|--help] <start-directory> <exact-name>

findup [-v|--version] [-h|--help] <start-directory> <arg-to-\`find\`> <arg-to-\`find\`>...

<exact-name> is the exact file name for which to search.

<start-directory> is the path to the directory from which to start searching.
If not specified, defaults to the current directory.

<arg-to-\`find\`>... are 2 or more arguments to pass to the `find` command,
instead of searching for an exact file name to match.

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`fries-findup` is a simple shell function to walk up a directory
tree searching for a matching file, or to walk up a directory tree
and run the \`find\` command on each ancestor.

A common use case is being inside a subdirectory of a project and
looking for a project stored at the root of the project. E.g., you
could find the root of a git repo by looking up-path for a ".git"
directory.


OPTIONS
-------

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Display short help message

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Display the version number


OUTPUT
------

If an <exact-name> is specified, prints the path name of the first
matching file of the same exact name, if found.

For example,

    $ tmpdir=$(mktemp -d)
    $ cd ${tmpdir}
    $ git init .
    $ mkdir test
    $ cd test
    $ fries-findup .git
    /tmp/tmp.XXXXXXXXXX/.git

If a <start-directory> and an <exact-name> are specified, searches
up from the starting directory and prints the path name of the first
matching file found.

If 2 or more <arg-to-find> are specified, prints whatever the `find` command outputs.

For example, you'll see the same output for some searches,

    $ cd path/to/fries-findup/bin

    $ fries-findup README.rst
    path/to/fries-findup/README.rst

    $ fries-findup . README.rst
    path/to/fries-findup/README.rst

    $ fries-findup . -name README.rst
    path/to/fries-findup/README.rst

but not for others,

    $ cd path/to/fries-findup/bin

    $ fries-findup "*I*N*"

    $ fries-findup . "*I*N*"

    $ fries-findup . -name "*I*N*"
    path/to/fries-findup/LICENSE
    path/to/fries-findup/VERSION

EXIT STATUS
-----------

If searching for an <exact-name> and a matching file is found, returns `0`;
otherwise returns `1`.

If 2 or more <arg-to-find> are specified and using \`find\`, returns the
first non-zero \`find\` return value, or `0` if every \`find\` succeeds.

If no arguments are specified, returns `1`.


SEE ALSO
--------

Project page: _https://github.com/hotoffthehamster/hamster-cli_


COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2018 HotOffThe Hamster

hamster-cli is released under the terms of an GPLv3 license.

